The Joe Rogan experience.
Like so many things that Terence McKenna said, it's both true and untrue.
I think it's untrue in a literal sense,
but very true in a poetic sentence because the
historical cultural context of a drug is part of what you bring to that drug
experience. The molecule does not contain information.
The ketamine molecule does not bring an experience to you.
That is something that is generated in your brain by your consciousness.
And so w if you have a new substance that has no
cultural associations,
then maybe it was like that for you don't have expectations,
don't have expectations. That's.
A big part of it, isn't it?
It's a huge part of them. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
I made a piece in the new season of my show about, um,
five MEO DMT containing toad venom. Um,
and there's a big controversy in the toad venom community,
which believe it or not is a community and they are
purists.
Are they friends with the OPO files?
Oh, definitely not. No, no. They don't like the OPO files.
So what is the venom community? Think?
They think that this venom has some spiritual component
derive from its association,
with the toad that makes it better than synthetic five MEO DMT.
Now I've analyzed several samples of toad venom and
before five MEO DMT was made illegal in the United States.
And in terms of what you find,
if you inject it into a mass spectrometer five MEO,
DMT is the only psychedelic that's present in some samples.
There might be trace quantities of another psychedelic called Bufo Tinian,
but it's a minuscule amount of a less potent molecule.
So predominantly you have five MEO DMT,
which is likely the strongest naturally occurring serotonergic psychedelic.
And for conservation purposes,
it's necessary that people stop milking toads because it's become too popular.
Mike, Tyson's talking about it all the time I made, I mean,
and it's like, it sounds ridiculous. Like Mike Tyson could have an effect on,
um, conservation,
but if a celebrity says they like something that can have a tangible effect on
the environment.
The people who have toads for that very reason,
because Mike Tyson talked about those toads.
Now they have toads and they milked these toads.
Oh yeah. I mean, me too. I, I talked to the, uh,
billionaire who flew a private jet full of toads to
Greece to create a private towed sanctuary.
Wow.
Wow. How many toads.
Does he got the photos? It didn't look like that many.
It didn't look like a jet fuel.
Five MEO. DMT does not strike me as something that you'd want to do a lot.
It's so terrifying.
That's probably most terrifying experience I've ever had on psychedelics because
I ceased to exist. Like is the,
the one drug where I feel like when I took it, I wasn't there anymore.
I, I was gone until I came back. Like, I,
I felt like I didn't have thoughts. I didn't have, I,
I knew,
I knew I was experiencing the five MEO DMT
realm or whatever it was, but I didn't,
there was no context in terms of, uh,
I didn't realize I'm on my couch sitting at home. Like I was gone, I was gone.
There's no visuals.
It was just this white sort of pixelated,
like grayish, white gone world, you know?
And it was terrifying because it felt like death was the one thing that felt the
most like, oh my God, like now, now I don't know.
I'm not here anymore, but coming back from it,
I think it was very valuable. Like, as I was returning,
I remember thinking so much about,
so much about the, the way in which I talk. I remember thinking that like, God,
you're just like so much of the way I would communicate was
not just me trying to get my thoughts across,
but me trying to say things in a way that would be impressive or in a way that
would be flowery or, you know,
try to make it look like I was more intelligent than I was or whatever.
But I remember like remembering that like really clear little, like, well,
I kind of clean up the way I talk. So I'm full of. Like thinking that as I was,
as I was trying to figure out how I was going to describe this experience,
I was realizing, as I was thinking like, God,
I got to figure out how to describe this. Like, boy, I talk like I'm full of.
Like, so there was value in that. But I did it a few times.
I think I did it three times,
but it was a terrifying every time terrifying,
like while you're gone, like why you slip away? I remember just thinking like,
whoa, this is not good. This is not good. Like, you feel like, oh my God,
I up. Like, I really died. I really,
I really stopped being here. And it also makes you think like, well,
maybe this is going to the light.
Maybe this is what they talk about when they talk about going to the light,
when you die, like maybe you're having this kind of experience.
Cause it's really disturbing, but then pretty peaceful when it's over. Like, uh,
it felt pretty good when it came back.
But the concept of giving away all of my control of reality like that,
for some reason, N N DMT doesn't scare me as much.
It's a totally different drug. Yeah. Experientially, chemically it's, you know,
Silicon is closer to DMT. Then five MEO,
DMT is mushrooms are closer chemically speaking.
And yeah,
I think that it defies description in a different way than other psychedelic
experiences do with something like DMT.
It's difficult to describe because there is such an abundance of imagery and
thoughts and associations that it's extremely difficult to communicate that to
someone with five MEO DMT, there's nothing.
And that's also difficult to communicate that white out.
And there is an absence of everything.
Completely. Do you find it terrifying?
I have found it terrifying. Yes. It's. It's very, I've, you know, I have,
I had a very profound experience with it in 2017 and I have no real
desire to use it again.
I'm not going back there.
I'll go back to N N DMT. I'll go back to that.
Oh, me too, because it's just a different drug entirely.
And I think that DMT can be integrated into
a normal life, much more easily than five MEO DMT. Actually,
I credit DMT with like sort of,
I talked about the sort of COVID denial that I had at the beginning of the
pandemic where I was, you know, I can't stop making my TV show. Uh,
we're all gonna get it anyway. We can't just stop working.
We can't shut down the world. We can't stop flying.
And then I spoke to DMT and had this, um,
image of MC Escher, his angels and demons,
but instead of angels and demons, it was pangolin and horseshoe bats and,
and, uh, and came out of it and, and thought,
uh, of course I feel horrible. Of course this is depressing and confusing.
This is actually one of the worst things that has happened in my lifetime.
And I just have to accept it now. And I felt so much more at peace.
It just stripped away the denial. And I could just say, all right,
this is happening. And.
So you were just wrestling with the reality of having to shut down.
Yeah. And kind of,
I resented some other people on my team who in retrospect were behaving in a way
that was completely rational, where I was thinking like, oh, come on.
We're not going to go on this shoot really. But,
but they were right and I was wrong and I had to stop.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free, only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.